.TH CLEARXS 1 "26 March 1996"
.SH NAME
clearxs \- Updates the WWW counter file every day
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ta 8n
.B clearxs
[
.I options
]
.LP 
.SH DESCRIPTION OF CLEARXS
CLEARXS is a program that you should install in \fIcron\fP's table.
What it does is clear some of the fields in the WWW counter file every night.
This is so that the counter can assume three values: a day counter, a
month counter and a total counter. This program resets the day counter
to 0 every day and the month counter to 0 every first of the month.
.SH OPTIONS
The program has three options:
.TP
.B \-d
This makes the program clear all the day counters, but leaves the other
counters as they were. This option should be used every night.
.TP
.B \-m
This makes the program clear the day and the month counter. The total
counter is left as it was. This should be run by \fIcron\fP every first of
the month.
.TP
.B \-T
Clears all the counters. Do NOT use :)
.SH EXAMPLE
The following can be used as a cron table entry:
.LP
0       0       2\-31    *       *       root    clearxs \-d
.br
0       0       1       *       *       root    clearxs \-m

.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
I thank all the members at MCGV Stack who are actively involved in the
entire WWW happening.
.SH SEE ALSO
http://www.stack.nl/xs\-httpd/
.br
httpd(1), xspasswd(1), imagemap(1), readxs(1), gfxcount(1), xsindex(1),
httpdc(1), httpd.conf(5)
.SH COPYRIGHT
All the programs in the XS\-HTTPD package are copyright (C) 1995-2005
by Sven Berkvens and Johan van Selst, except the imagemapper.
.SH AUTHOR
The original author of this WWW server and its accompanying programs
is Sven Berkvens, except the imagemapper which was taken from the NCSA
distribution and cleaned up. The current maintainer is Johan van Selst.
.LP
New features have been added by other people at Stack. If you have
problems with this version please contact the Stack maintainers
(xs-httpd@stack.nl) about it and don't bother Sven.
