.TH GFXCOUNT 1 "28 May 1996"
.SH NAME
gfxcount \- The graphical digits generator for XS\-HTTPD
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ta 8n
.B http://your.site.name/cgi\-bin/gfxcount\fI?number\fP
.br
.B http://your.site.name/cgi\-bin/gfxcount\fI/path/fontdir?number\fP
.LP 
.SH DESCRIPTION OF GFXCOUNT
GFXCOUNT generates GIF images that represent a number. The number to be
generated must be supplied as an argument to the CGI binary.
An optional \fIpath\fP may be supplied. This must be either the name of
a directory in which the files \fB0.ppm\fP through \fB9.ppm\fP must be
located, or the prefix of a font name. In this case, \fB0.ppm\fP through
\fB9.ppm\fP will be appended to the path specified. This way, you can have
a number of fonts in one directory.
.LP
This program is usually not called by itself. Instead, use the
count\-*\-gfx directives supplied by the XS\-HTTPD. See httpd(1) for
details..
.LP
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
I thank all the members at MCGV Stack who are actively involved in the
entire WWW happening. I thank the NCSA for creating the original version
of this program. See \fIhttp://hoohoo.ncsa.uiuc.edu/\fP for details about
the NCSA distribution.
.SH SEE ALSO
http://www.stack.nl/xs\-httpd/
.br
httpd(1), xspasswd(1), clearxs(1), readxs(1), imagemap(1), xsindex(1),
httpdc(1), httpd.conf(5)
.SH COPYRIGHT
All the programs in the XS\-HTTPD package are copyright (C) 1995-2005
by Sven Berkvens and Johan van Selst, except the imagemapper.
.SH AUTHOR
The original author of this WWW server and its accompanying programs
is Sven Berkvens, except the imagemapper which was taken from the NCSA
distribution and cleaned up. The current maintainer is Johan van Selst.
.LP
New features have been added by other people at Stack. If you have
problems with this version please contact the Stack maintainers
(xs-httpd@stack.nl) about it and don't bother Sven.
