.Dd June 12, 2002
.Dt HTTPD.CONF 5
.Os xs-httpd/3.5
.Sh NAME
.Nm httpd.conf
.Nd XS-httpd configuration file
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The httpd.conf configuration file has the following general layout:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
 ... global options ...

 <System>
 ... options for main site ...
 </System>

 <Virtual>
 ... options for virtual host ...
 </Virtual>

 <Users>
 ... options for user homedirs ...
 </Users>

 <Socket>
 ... options for binding specific sockets ...
 </Socket>

.Ed
The file can have only one
.Sy System
and one
.Sy Users
section, but multiple
.Sy Virtual
sections (one per virtual hostname). Keep in mind that there
are fall-back defaults for all options: you are not required
to use a configuration file and leaving out an option does
not mean it will be automatically disabled.
.Pp
Options names and their values must be seperated by whitespace.
Option values in the configuration file should never be quoted
using single or double quotation marks.
Note that a
.Ar boolean
value in the configuration file should always be entered as
.Ql true
or
.Ql false .
.Pp
.Ss Global Options
The following options can be set in the global section:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Sy SystemRoot Ar directory
The main httpd directory which contains all the data subdirectories
(like
.Pa htdocs , cgi-bin , logs ,
\&...).
.It Sy PidFile Ar filename
The file to store the current pid and the last startup
command line. This will be used by
.Xr httpdc 1
for restarting and other maintainance commands.
.It Sy UserId Ar username
The username or numeric uid that will be used to process all
requests. This must not be the
.Ql root
superuser, however
.Ql nobody
(default) or
.Ql http
are good candidates.
.It Sy GroupId Ar groupname
The groupname or numeric gid that will be used to process
all requests.
.It Sy ExecAsUser Ar boolean
If enabled then filenames and CGI's in a user directory will
be read and executed with the permissions of that user. This
is enabled by default.
.It Sy DefaultCharset Ar charset
The chacterset in which text documents will be displayed by
deafult. If this is not specified, then
.Ql US-ASCII
will be used. This can be overridden locally by
.Pa .charset
files. The
.Pa .charset
file should contain one line which specifies the character
set that is used for all text files in that directory (and
any subdirectories).
.It Sy UseVirtualUid Ar boolean
If enabled, files in virtual host directories will be
retreived with the permissions of the owner over the virtual
host rootdir. This can be useful if different users maintain
different sites.
.It Sy VirtualHostDir Ar directory
When virtual hosts are enabled, the server also supports
.Qq automatic
detection of virtual hostnames - that is without specific
.Sy Virtual
blocks in the configuration file. If the given
.Ar directory
contains subdirectories with names that match a requested
hostname, then this subdirectory will be used as the HTML
root directory for the virtual host data. The
.Ar directory
may be an absolute path or relative to
.Sy SystemRoot
- if the setting is omited then the value of
.Sy VirtualHostDir
will be the same as
.Sy SystemRoot .
.It Sy UseServerSideInclude Ar boolean
By default all HTML files will be parsed for server-side
include directives. The output of CGI scripts with the
filename prefix
.Ql ssi-
will also be checked for server-side includes. However if
this setting is turned off, SSI directives will be ignored
and files are not checked (which may slightly increase
performance of the webserver).
.It Sy UseLocalScript Ar boolean
If enabled all directories will be checked for the presence
of a
.Pa .xsscripts
file. This can be used to specify how files with certain
extensions should be handled by the webserver. These files
use the exact same syntax as the global
.Pa script.methods
file, see
.Xr httpd 1
for details.
.It Sy UseDnsLookup Ar boolean
By default the IP addresses of incoming connections are
resolved through DNS and logged with hostname information.
You can disable this features by setting
.Sy UseDnsLookup
to
.Ql false .
Note that this will also make the environment variable
.Ev REMOTE_HOST
useless.
.It Sy UseStrictHostname Ar boolean
Setting this option will disable the use of
.Sy VirtualHostDir
and the fallback default site: only if the requested host
exactly matches a
.Sy HostName
or
.Sy HostAlias
entry, will the request be accepted and any content
displayed.
.It Sy UseAcceptFilter Ar boolean
Some systems offer kernel support to delay an
.Xr accept 2
call until (appropriate) data has actually arrived on the
socket. On FreeBSD (>= 4.0) the
.Xr accf_http 9
module can be used. Linux only has an option to wait for any
queued data. Both mechanisms can effectively reduce the
workload of the webserver, especially when you are
experiencing bogus connects. Only enable this option if your
system has indeed such a system.
.It Sy UseETag Ar boolean
If this option is enabled, entity tags will be used for static
documents (anything that is not a CGI binary or contains
server-side include directives). Browsers and webproxies can
use this tag to determine if their cached entries are still
up-to-date. Entity tag information is based on the file
properties (such as size and modification time) rather than
the file contents. Therefor it's fast to determine, but not
perfect.
.It Sy UseCoreDump Ar boolean
This option is used for debugging only and disabled by default.
If enabled, then coredumps may be generated when the program
triggers a segmentation fault, illegal instruction, bus error
or similar fatal error condition. Whether the core image is indeed
created will depend on other factors as well: write access for
the actual uid in the working directory (often
.Pa / ) ,
available diskspace and system preferences about the desirability
of uid-shifting programs dumping their state on disk.
.It Sy UseContentMD5 Ar boolean
HTTP supports checksums to validate content integrity. At the moment
only MD5 checksums are supported in HTTP/1.1. If this option is
enabled (it's disabled by default), then all data will include a
.Sy Content-MD5
header, containing the base64 encoded md5-checksum of the content.
For dynamically generated data (CGI of SSI chunked transfers)
the md5 checksum will be added to the trailers
(headers following content).
This option is only available on systems with libmd.
.It Sy UsePut Ar boolean
Allow users to handle HTTP PUT and DELETE requests with local
CGI scripts. This is disabled by default.
The actual handles must be set locally with the
.Sy PutScript
and/or
.Sy DeleteScript
configuration directives as explained in
.Xr xsconf 5 .
.It Sy Priority Ar level
The system priority that the daemon will be running at. A
lower priority causes more favorable scheduling. The default
priority is 0.
.It Sy ScriptPriority Ar level
The CPU priority that user CGI scripts will be running at. A
lower priority causes more favorable scheduling. The default
value is
.Dv PRIO_MAX ,
which may cause scripts to respond quite slowly, but at
least your other processes won't be suffering too much from
broken scripts.
.It Sy ScriptTimeout Ar minutes
The time a CGI script is allowed to run before it will be
considered runaway and killed by the server. The time should
be specified in minutes (default is 6). Note that several
browsers will kill a connection even earlier than this.
.It Sy ScriptCpuLimit Ar minutes
The amount of CPU time a CGI script is allowed to use before
it will be considered runaway and killed by the server. The
time should be specified in minutes (default is 2).
.It Sy ScriptEnvPath Ar path
The
.Ev PATH
environment variable that should be presented to CGI
binaries. This must be a colon seperated list of
directories; no sanity checking is done. A reasonable
default is provided.
.El
.Ss Socket Options
It is possible to bind to multiple sockets at the same time
(e.g. http and https, or IPv4 and IPv6), using multiple
.Sy Socket
blocks in the configuration. The following options are valid
within a
.Sy Socket
block:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Sy ListenAddress Ar hostname
The hostname or IP-address the webserver should bind on. If
the hostname resolves to multiple IP-addresses, the
webserver will only bind to the first address resolved.
.It Sy ListenPort Ar port
The service name or port number to bind on. If you want to
listen to multiple ports, you can add more Socket-blocks.
.It Sy ListenFamily Brq Cm IPv4 Ns No | Ns Cm IPv6
The address family to use:
.Sy IPv6
may not be available on all systems. The default is to leave
the family unspecified - which means that your operating
system can choose: in this case the httpd can even listen to
both IPv4 and IPv6 addresses. Note that most operation
systems don't allow binding to multi-family sockets, in
which case you will need seperate
.Sy Socket
blocks for IPv4 and IPv6.
.It Sy SocketName Ar key
A socket name is optional and should usually not be
specified. If such a
.Ar key
is present, then connections to this socket will not use the
default settings from the
.Sy System
section, but instead use the settings from the
.Sy Virtual
section(s) with a matching
.Sy HostName .
.It Sy Instances Ar number
The number of parallell services to run.
.It Sy UseSSL Ar boolean
If enabled, use SSL instead of plain text. This can only be
used if SSL support is enabled at compile time. If this
option is set then the https (443) port will be used by
default, instead of http (80). This option is disabled by
default. Note that you may include both blocks with and
without
.Sy UseSSL .
.It Sy SSLCertificate Ar filename
The location of the x509 certificate to be used for SSL
connections. This defaults to
.Sy SystemRoot Ns Pa /cert.pem .
.It Sy SSLPrivateKey Ar filename
The location of the x509 certificate's key to be used for SSL connections.
This defaults to
.Sy SystemRoot Ns Pa /key.pem
- but may be contained in the same file as the
.Sy SSLCertificate
file. Note that this key may be protected with a secret passphrase.
In that case the server will prompt for this passphrase when started.
Do not use passphrase protection when you expect the server to start
up automatically.
.It Sy SSLAuthentication Xo
.Brq Cm none Ns No | Ns Cm optional Ns No | Ns Cm strict
.Xc
This setting indicates whether clients connecting using https
should sent a client certificate to authenticate themselves.
The certificate exchange is part of the SSL handshake and
thus applies to all connections to the socket in which it is
specified.
.Pp
The default is
.Sy none :
don't request a client certificate. When set to
.Sy optional ,
the client must send an identifying cert, but this
certificate won't be checked in any way (it may be
self-signed). The most secure setting is
.Sy strict :
all client certificates will be checked and must validate
against the list of root Certificate Authorities. This
implies
.Sy SSLCAfile
or
.Sy SSLCApath :
if neither is set, checks will automatically (without
further warning) fall back to
.Sy optional
mode.
.Pp
When
.Sy SSLAuthentication
is enabled, extra environment variables are available in the
CGI environment to offer details about the client
certificate subject and issuing organisation; see
.Xr httpd_cgi 7 .
.It Sy SSLCAfile Ar filename
The location of the list of x509 root certificates to be
used for validation of client certificates. This is unset by
default; although an example
.Pa caroot.pem
file is included in the distribution.
.It Sy SSLCApath Ar directory
The location of the list of files containing x509 root
certificates to be used for validation of client certs. This
is unset by default. Both
.Sy SSLCAfile
and
.Sy SSLCAfile
may be set, in which case both locations will be checked for
certification authority certificates.
.It Sy SSLMatchSDN Ar pcre
If
.Sy SSLAuthentication
is enabled
.Pf ( Ql optional
or
. Ql strict Ns )
and PCRE support is compiled in, this expression should
match the client certificate subject as presented in the
environment variable
.Ev SSL_CLIENT_S_DN .
Otherwise the client certificate will be rejected.
.It Sy SSLMatchIDN Ar pcre
If
.Sy SSLAuthentication
is enabled
.Pf ( Ql optional
or
. Ql strict Ns )
and PCRE support is compiled in, this expression should
match the client certificate issuer as presented in the
environment variable
.Ev SSL_CLIENT_I_DN .
Otherwise the client certificate will be rejected.
.El
.Ss Section Options
The following options can be set in any of the
.Sy System , Virtual
and
.Sy Users
sections:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Sy HostName Ar hostname
The hostname of the server. This is required for a
.Sy Virtual
section. For the
.Sy System
and
.Sy Users
sections it defaults to the name of the machine.
.It Sy HostAlias Ar hostname Op Ar hostname ...
One or more aliases for the previously mentioned hostname.
.It Sy PathInfoScripts Ar filename Op Ar filename ...
One or more filenames (URIs) of scripts that should be
executed using the username path specified in the
.Ev PATH_INFO
argument. A good example of such a filename would be
.Pa /cgi-bin/imagemap .
.It Sy HtmlDir Ar directory
The main directory containing all the HTML files. This
defaults to
.Sy SystemRoot Ns Pa /htdocs/
for the main server and
.Pa .html
for users (path relative to user's homedir).
It is a mandatory option in
.Sy Virtual
sections.
.Pp
For the
.Sy Users
section the special substring
.Ql %u
may be used in this setting, which will be replaced with the
user's login. There is no need to use this for the home
directory (as the path given is relative to the homedir),
but one might want to do something like
.Pa /data/www/%u/ .
.It Sy ExecDir Ar directory
The
.Ar directory
containing the CGI scripts. This is the directory as it is
specified in the URL, which is not necessary the same as the
directory on disk (default:
.Pa cgi-bin ) .
.It Sy PhExecDir Ar directory
Physical CGI directory: this is the subdirectory where
scripts are stored on disk. However if you do not use the
same value as
.Sy ExecDir ,
it is easy to get confused (default:
.Pa cgi-bin ) .
.It Sy IconDir Ar directory
Location where the icons used by
.Xr xsindex 1
are to be stored on disk. This defaults to
.Sy SystemRoot Ns Pa /icons .
.It Sy LogAccess Ar filename
Logfile to use for normal HTTP requests (answered with a
.Li 2xx
response). Instead of a filename, it is possible to log to
an external process using a pipe-symbol and full pathname.
If the command is followed by options or arguments, make
sure to quote it using double quotes. For example to enable
logging through cronolog:
.Bd -literal
LogAccess "|/usr/local/sbin/cronolog /wwwsys/logs/access_%Y%m%d"
.Ed
.It Sy LogError Ar filename
Logfile or program to use for HTTP requests that trigger
errors (like file not found,
.Li 4xx
responses).
.It Sy LogReferer Ar filename
Logfile or program to use for HTTP referrer information. Note that this
is only used when
.Sy LogStyle
.Ql traditional
is selected - otherwise referrer information will be
included in the standard
.Sy LogAccess
file.
.It Sy LogRefererIgnoreDomain Ar domain
References coming from this
.Ar domain
will not be logged in the
.Sy LogReferer
file. This is usually your local network domain. Note that
it is wise to start the domain with a dot (.) to match all
hosts in the domain as well. You may also give a machine
name instead of a domain name. Note: This only affects
.Ql traditional
logging where a sperate referrer logfile is used. It will be
ignored when using more modern logstyles.
.It Sy LogStyle Xo
.Brq Cm traditional Ns | Ns Cm combined Ns | Ns Cm virtual
.Xc
Defines the logfile format. Traditionally access and
referrer logs will be split over two different files
.Pq Ql common logfile format ,
but using a
.Sy combined
accesslog is more common nowadays
.Pq Ql extended logfile format Ns .
The
.Sy virtual
format is basically a combined log with an extra first
field indicating the virtual hostname that was accessed on
the webserver.
.It Sy IndexFiles Ar filename Op Ar filename ...
Defines the filename(s) that should be used when the user
asks for a directory. The webserver will never autogenerate
a directory index: you can use
.Xr xsindex 1
for that. You can specify multiple filenames seperated by
commas or whitespace. The default value is
.Ql index.html index.htm index.php
(meaning that
.Pa index.htm
will only be tried if
.Pa index.html
is not present, etc.).
.Pp
If this option is omitted for the
.Sy Virtual or
.Sy Users
section, it will default to the definition in the
.Sy System
block, or the previously mentioned default if this is also
unspecified.
.It Sy SocketName Ar key
A socket name is optional and should usually not be
specified. If such a
.Ar key
is present, then this virtual section will only be applied
to listening sockets that match the same key. There may be
multiple sockets or
.Sy Virtual
sections with the same
.Sy SocketName .
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
Refer to the
.Pa httpd.conf.sample
file that comes with the source distribution.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr httpd 1 ,
.Xr xsscripts 5 ,
.Xr xsconf 5 ,
.Xr mime.types 5
.Pp
The project homepage:
.Pa http://www.stack.nl/xs\-httpd/
