.Dd May 29, 1996
.Dt HTTPDC 1
.Os xs-httpd/3.5
.Sh NAME
.Nm httpdc
.Nd Control program for the xs-httpd webserver
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm httpdc
.Op Fl d Ar rootdir
.Op Fl p Ar pidfile
.Op Ar command
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Ql httpdc
is a program that lets you control the behaviour of the
xs\-httpd daemon.
With this program, you can retrieve its status, terminate
the webserver, restart it, etc.
.Pp
Without any arguments, the program will start in interactive
mode showing a prompt in which you can issue multiple
commands.
If a command is given on the command line, the program will
execute that command and terminate immediately when it is
finished.
.Pp
The following control commands are available,
.Bl -tag -width Ds -compact
.It Ic ?
.It Ic help
Gives a list of command and their meanings.
.Pp
.It Ic status
Display the webserver's status. It checks whether the main
daemon is running and if the process group is still active.
It also displayes the pid of the main process and the
command that was used to start the webserver.
.Pp
.It Ic stop
Shutdown the webserver. It will only stop the main daemon:
that daemon will shut down its child processes before exiting.
.Pp
.It Ic kill
Forcefully kills the webserver and all child processes.
This should only be used if a normal
.Ic stop
command isn't working or doesn't respond fast enough.
.Pp
.It Ic restart
Shuts the webserver down, waits until it is completely dead
and then restarts it using the command line arguments that
were used last time it was started. If the daemon was not
running, it will print a warning and start it anyway.
.Pp
.It Ic reload
This makes the webserver reload its global configuration files
.Pq Pa httpd.conf , mime.types No and Pa compress.methods .
Note that this will not redo the complete configuration; in
particular this will not create or terminate any new sockets
that have been added to or removed from the
.Xr httpd.conf 5
- nor will it change the owner (uid/gid) of running
processes. In general it is better to use
.Ic restart
to ensure that the complete new configuration has been
activated.
.Pp
.It Ic quit
.It Ic exit
Quits the control program. You may also press
.Li CTRL-D
(or any other key that means
.Ql end of input )
to quit the program.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr httpd 1 ,
.Xr httpd.conf 5
.Pp
The project homepage:
.Pa http://www.stack.nl/xs\-httpd/
