.Dd March 26, 1996
.Dt READXS 1
.Os xs-httpd/3.5
.Sh NAME
.Nm readxs
.Nd Display xs\-httpd counter file information
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm readxs
.Op Fl d | Fl m | Fl t | Fl l | Fl v
.Op Fl w Ar number
.Ar URI
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Read statistics from the xs\-httpd pageview counter data.
This information is usually displayed using the webserver's
server-side include
.Sy count-*
directives, explained in
.Xr httpd_ssi 7 .
This program is mainly used for debugging purposes.
.Pp
The following options are available
.Bl -tag -width Ds -compact
.It Fl d
display the
.Ql day
type counter
.It Fl m
display the
.Ql month
type counter
.It Fl t
display the
.Ql total
type counter (this is the default)
.It Fl l
display last access timestamp
.It Fl v
display counter datafile version id (for debugging purposes)
.It Fl w Ar number
set the selected type counter to the specified number. This
option may only be used by an administrator and should be
used with care as it can be used to set "impossible" values.
If you want to reset the counters, use clearxs(1) instead.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Pa xs-counter.data
The data file containing all counter details. The default
location for this file is in
.Sy SystemRoot Ns Pa /logs/ .
.It Pa xs-counter.lock
Temporary lock file used when writing (incrementing or
resetting) counter data. Stale lock files will not be
removed automatically.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
Say you have a counter installed on your webpage using the
server's server side includes as explained in
.Xr httpd_ssi 7 .
Say this page is called
.Pa index.html .
Then you can get the value of this counter on standard
output for use in shell scripts using this program. In this
case you could type:
.Pp
.Dl readxs /~ Ns Ar username Ns /index.html
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Ex -std readxs
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr httpd 1 ,
.Xr clearxs 1 ,
.Xr httpd_ssi 7
.Pp
The project homepage:
.Pa http://www.xs\-httpd.org/
