.TH HTTPD 5 "12 June 2002"
.SH FILENAME
.B \.xsauth
\- XS httpd authentication file
.LP
.SH CONCEPT
An .xsauth file informs the xs\-httpd webserver which authenticated users
should be granted read access to a directory-hierarchy. Only users mentioned
in this file can view the available data.

An .xsauth file is created with the \fBxspasswd(1)\fP utility. This can
also be used to add more username and password combinations later.
However this utility can not be used to remove users or to add special
options: for this you will need to edit the file manually and remove the
line that mentions the obsolete user entry.

The .xsauth file can be used in data directories (HtmlDir) as well as
in cgi-bin script directories (PhExecDir). So you really don't have to
implement authentication support in your own scripts.

If you want to disallow access through the webinterface completely, or
you want to restrict access based on IP addresses, use a \fI.noxs\fP file
instead.
.LP
.SH PASSWORD ENTRIES
Normal password entries consist of a 'L' (locked) or 'U' (unlocked),
indicating if the password entry may be modified through the webinterface,
using the \fBxschpass(1)\fP CGI binary. This letter is immediately followed by
the username, a colon and the encrypted version of the password.

On systems that don't have a standard \fBcrypt(3)\fP function available,
all passwords will be stored unencryped instead.
.LP
.SH LDAP AUTHENTICATION
If LDAP authentication is enabled at compile time, then special directives can
be used in \fI.xspasswd\fP files to enable password checks via a removed
authentication server.

.TP
.B ldaphost=...
Set the hostname or IP address of the LDAP server.
.TP
.B ldapuri=...
Set the LDAP server name in URL format, starting with ldap:// or ldaps://.
Setting ldapuri overrides the ldaphost setting - and vice versa.
.TP
.B ldapattr=...
Set username attribute. The LDAP server will be queried for a matching
$ldapattr=$username entry. The default is \fIuid\fP.
.TP
.B ldapdn=...
Set the base DN (directory name) for the LDAP query. Setting a DN is mandatory.
.TP
.B ldapversion=...
Protocol version to use. The default is 3, but for older servers one may
want to use 2 instead.
.TP
.B ldapgroups=...
List of groups of which the user should be a member. If the username is
found in any of these groups, then access will be granted. If no groups
are specified, then a matching username and password will be enough
to be granted access.


.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
I thank all the members at MCGV Stack who are actively involved in the
entire WWW happening.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
http://www.stack.nl/xs\-httpd/
.br
httpd(1), xspasswd(1), httpd.conf(5)
.SH COPYRIGHT
All the programs in the XS\-HTTPD package are copyright (C) 1995-2005
by Sven Berkvens and Johan van Selst, except the imagemapper. 
.SH AUTHOR
The original author of this WWW server and its accompanying programs
is Sven Berkvens, except the imagemapper which was taken from the NCSA
distribution and cleaned up. The current maintainer is Johan van Selst.
.LP
New features have been added by other people at Stack. If you have
problems with this version please contact the Stack maintainers
(xs\-httpd@stack.nl) about it and don't bother Sven.
