.Dd February 10, 2007
.Dt XSCONF 5
.Os xs-httpd/3.5
.Sh NAME
.Nm \.xsconf
.Nd XS-httpd local configuration file
.Sh DESCRIPTION
An
.Pa .xsconf
file allows the user to set special directives for handling
certain files in a directory. Using simple file matching
commands, the user can set the mime-type, interpreter,
character set or other options that are specific to a
certain file or file pattern.
.Pp
The file consists of block which apply to a specific
filename pattern. The pattern should be listed in square
brackets and the options listed below will apply to all
files that match the given pattern. See the EXAMPLE section
below for an illustration.
These patterns are standard
.Xr fnmatch 3
patterns. The special case
.Li [*]
will match every file in a directory.
.Pp
The filename may be prefixed by a method name and a slash
to indicate that the following block only applies when the
specified method is used. For instance
.Li [POST/*.cgi]
would only match post requests for .cgi files.
.Ss Configuration Directives
All directives can only be used once in a block, unless
explicitly mentioned otherwise (e.g. Restrict).
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Sy MimeType
Set the Content-Type for this file. This overrides the global
.Xr mimetypes 5
file. A type must be of the form
.Sy major/minor ,
e.g.
.Ql text/html .
.It Sy Charset
Specify the character of the document. Common character sets
include
.Ql US-ASCII ,
.Ql UTF-8 ,
.Ql ISO-8859-1 ,
.Ql KOI8-R
and
.Ql EUC-JP .
.It Sy Language
Specify the natural language(s) of intended audience for the
specified document. Note that this might not be equivalent
to all the languages used within the entity-body. For
example
.Ql "en-GB, nl" .
.It Sy Execute
An execute command sets the program (full path name) that
should be used as an interpreter (preprocessor) for the
file. This overrides any settings in the global
.Pa scripttypes
configuration file. You can use this, for example to have
all *.pl files interpreted by
.Pa /usr/bin/perl .
The special internal commands (such as
.Ql internal:404 )
may also be used here. See
.Xr xsscripts 5
for more details.
.Pp
If the command line contains whitespace characters or
special shell (redirection) characters the command will be
executed in the system Bourne shell
.Pa /bin/sh
after appending the requested filename to the command line.
The command line may also contain the special string
.Ql %f
which will be replaced by the filename. If
.Ql %f
is present, then the filename won't be appended at the end
of the command line.
.Pp
Execute commands can be disabled globally by setting the
.Sy UseLocalScript
to
.Ql false
in
.Xr httpd.conf 5 .
.It Sy Restrict
The argument to a restrict command should be a list containing
one of more IP addresses, prefixes or IP subnets (in CIDR)
notation. Access to the matching files will only be granted if
the IP of the visitor matches one of the restrict address
blocks. All other visitors will be presented with a
.Ql 403 Permission Denied
error.
.It Sy NoPrivs
Boolean setting; if set to
.Ql true
then all matching files will be retrieved using the unpriviliged
account of the webserver (by default
.Ql www/www )
instead of under your own UID.
This can be useful if you want a file permission of say 600 to mean:
do not allow retrieval.
The default is
.Ql false :
all file are retrieved under your own UID.
.It Sy AuthFile
Specify a password file that should be used to decide who is
granted access to the matching file. Users who cannot
produce the required credentials will be presented with a
.Ql 401 Access Denied
error. See
.Xr xsauth 5
for the layout of such a file.
.Pp
Multiple filenames may be given and if any contains a matching
username/password combination, access will be granted.
Never combine
.Sy basic
and
.Sy digest
authentication files, as browsers will not be able to deal
with this.
.It Sy IndexFile
Set an alternative index file to be displayed if the default
.Pa index.html
does not exist. This setting only makes sense in a general
.Li [*]
block. Note that the index is still subject to options that
match this filename in other block.
For example one can set
.Pa index.py
as the index and add a
.Li [*.py]
block that sets Python as a local interpreter for all *.py
files.
.It Sy PutScript
Full pathname of the CGI program that should handle HTTP
.Sy PUT
requests for files in this directory.
The requested resource (filename) is passed on through the
.Ev PATH_TRANSLATED
environment variable. See
.Xr httpd_cgi 7
for dealing with CGI scripts.
Note that PUT requests require special status codes.
Only available when
.Sy UsePut
is enabled in the global server configuration.
.It Sy DeleteScript
Full pathname of the CGI program that should handle HTTP
.Sy DELETE
requests for files in this directory.
Works analogous to
.Sy PutScript .
.It Sy ScriptTimeout
Override the default timeout that is used to restrict the
execution time of all CGI scripts (wall time in minutes).
Other limits will still apply though, specifically the per
process CPU limit.
.It Sy p3pPolicyReference
Set the URL that contains the full P3P specification which
describes the privacy policy for the requested file. This
URL should refer to a correctly formatted XML document. The
default location for a site is
.Pa /w3c/p3p.xml .
Don't set this option if you wish to use the default.
.It Sy p3pCompactPolicy
In stead of, or in addition to a policy reference, it's
possible to specify the full P3P policy in a compact notation
(consisting of a string of short abbreviations). If set,
this policy will be added to the headers of the requested
document.
.El
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Ds
Extra authentication options are available when SSL and PCRE
are compiled in and SSL client certificates are used. SSL
client certificates must be enabled explicitly via the
.Sy SSLAuthentication
option in
.Xr httpd.conf 5 .
.It Sy SSLSubjectMatch
The argument should be a regular expression that is matched
against the
.Ql distinguished name
field of the subject mentioned on the SSL client certificate.
The contents of this field is also available through the
.Ev SSL_CLIENT_S_DN
environment variable.
Access is only granted if this information is available and
matches the data in the certificate. Multiple
.Sy SSLSubjectMatch
directives are allowed, in which case access is granted if
any of these match the certificate subject.
.It Sy SSLIssuerMatch
A regular expression that is matched against the issuer
information of the client certificate. Usage is similar to
the
.Sy SSLSubjectMatch
directive.
.El
.Ss Module Configuration Directives
Optional modules can be enabled for the webserver. In this case,
extra configuration directives for the specific modules are
available as well. These settings will be silently ingored when
the relevant webserver module is not loaded.
.Pp
.Ss mod_ldap
.Pp
If LDAP support is enabled, then special directives can be used
to enable password checks through a remote authentication server.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Sy LdapHost
Set the hostname or IP address of the LDAP authentication server.
.It Sy LdapURI
Set the LDAP authentication server name in URL format, starting with
.Pa ldap://
or
.Pa ldaps:// .
Setting
.Sy LdapURI
overrides the
.Sy LdapHost
setting - and vice versa.
.It Sy LdapAttr
Set username attribute. The LDAP server will be queried for
a matching
.Ql $LdapAttr=$username
entry. The default is
.Sy uid .
.It Sy LdapDN
Set the base DN (directory name) for the LDAP query. Setting
a DN is mandatory.
.It Sy LdapVersion
Protocol version to use. The default is 3, but for older
servers one may want to use 2 instead.
.It Sy LdapGroups
List of groups of which the user should be a member. If the
username is found in any of these groups, then access will
be granted. If no groups are specified, then a matching
username and password will be enough to be granted access.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
An
.Pa .xsconf
file in a directory tree that can only be accesses by
authenticated users from the local network, might look
something like this,
.Bd -literal -offset indent
[*.shtml]
Restrict	131.155.140.0/23
MimeType	text/html
Charset		utf-8
Execute		/usr/local/bin/php-cgi
AuthFile	/wwwsys/xsauth
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr httpd 1 ,
.Xr httpd.conf 5 ,
.Xr xsauth 5 ,
.Xr xsredir 5 ,
.Xr xsscripts 5
.Pp
The project homepage:
.Pa http://www.stack.nl/xs\-httpd/
