.TH XSINDEX 1 "28 May 1996"
.SH NAME
xsindex \- Create a nice index file for a directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ta 8n
.B xsindex
[
.I options
]
.I title
.LP 
.SH DESCRIPTION OF XSINDEX
XSINDEX is a program that will create a nice index page for a directory.
What it does is make a listing of all files in the current directory
(except for special files, like \fB.\fP, \fB.xsauth\.\fP, etc) and create
a table\-like overview of them. Included with every file is the type of
that file (in two different formats, see the \fB\-t\fP option) and its
size.

.SH OPTIONS
The program has a number of options:
.TP
.B \-b
If you activate this option, \fB..\fP will not be listed in the index.
This is useful if \fB..\fP has no meaning in that directory.
.TP
.B \-f
This option disabled the 'Are you sure you want to overwrite?' prompt.
.TP
.B \-m mimefile
This option allows you to specify a different mime index file. This
allows you to specify, for example, different icon images for file
types. Start the program without any arguments to see where the default
mime index file is located.
.TP
.B \-s
Disable the display of file sizes.
.TP
.B \-t mimetype
This option allows you to specify how file types are displayed. The
\fImimetype\fP can be either 1, 2 or 3. 3 disables the display of
the file type. 1 (the default) means full mime types, such as
\fBimage/jpeg\fP. 2 means user specified (see the \-m option)
strings, such as \fBJPEG image\fP.
.LP
The \fItitle\fP is used as the title of the document that will be
created. Use a descriptive title!
.LP
.SH EXAMPLE
xsindex \-t 2 "Directory of /pub/ftp"
.LP
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
I thank all the members at MCGV Stack who are actively involved in the
entire WWW happening.
.SH SEE ALSO
http://www.stack.nl/~sven/xs\-httpd/
.br
httpd(1), xspasswd(1), imagemap(1), readxs(1), gfxcount(1), clearxs(1),
httpdc(1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
All the programs in the XS\-HTTPD package are copyright (C) 1995, 1996
by Sven Berkvens, except the imagemapper.
.SH AUTHOR
The author of the XS WWW server and its accompanying programs is
Sven Berkvens (sven@stack.nl). I made all the programs,
except the imagemapper, which I took from the NCSA distribution,
but I cleaned it up.
