.TH XSPASSWD 1 "26 March 1996"
.SH NAME
xspasswd \- Manager for WWW authentication passwords using the XS\-HTTPD
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ta 8n
.B xspasswd
.LP 
.SH DESCRIPTION OF XSPASSWD
XSPASSWD is a program that lets you manage the usercode/password database
for the authentication feature of the XS\-HTTPD.
.LP
Authentication works very simply: if a file called \fI.xsauth\fP is present
in the directory in which a file is going to be retrieved, then the remote
user will be asked for a usercode and password before the file is allowed
to be retrieved. This program manages the \fI.xsauth\fP file.
.SH RUNNING XSPASSWD
Change your current directory to the directory that you wish to protect
with usercodes and passwords. Note that subdirectories of that subdirectory
are \fBnot\fP protected. You have to place a seperate \fI.xsauth\fP file per
directory that you wish to protect. You can of course use symbolic or
hard links to make them all equal.
.LP
Then, type \fBxspasswd\fP. The program will start up. It will ask you
for a username. Type a username and press ENTER. Then, the program asks
for a password for that username. Type something press ENTER. The program
then asks you to re\-enter the password that you just typed. Do that and
press ENTER again. Now the program asks if you wish to \fBlock\fP the
password. If you answer \fByes\fP, it will not be possible to change the
password using the WWW form (see below). If you answer \fBno\fP, it is
possible to change the password using the WWW form. After you press ENTER,
the program will update (or create) the \fI.xsauth\fP file.
.LP
Note that you can have as many usercodes and passwords as you wish.
.LP
You can also use this program to change passwords. Just type an existing
username when the program prompts you for a username. You do not have to
enter the old password. Users using the WWW form \fIare\fP required to
enter the old password before changing it to a new one.
.SH THE WWW FORM
This program has a similar program for the WWW. This other program is
called \fBxschpass\fP. It can be used by making a link to the following URL:
.LP
http://your.site.name/cgi\-bin/xschpass/~\fIUSERNAME\fP/\fIdirectory\fP
.LP
where \fIUSERNAME\fP is your usercode on that system. \fIdirectory\fP is
the directory in which the \fI.xsauth\fP file is situated.
.LP
Users using the WWW form are only allowed to change a password if they
know the old password.

.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
I thank all the members at MCGV Stack who are actively involved in the
entire WWW happening.
.SH SEE ALSO
http://www.stack.nl/xs\-httpd/
.br
httpd(1), imagemap(1), clearxs(1), readxs(1), gfxcount(1), xsindex(1),
httpdc(1), httpd.conf(5)
.SH COPYRIGHT
All the programs in the XS\-HTTPD package are copyright (C) 1995-2004
by Sven Berkvens and Johan van Selst, except the imagemapper.
.SH AUTHOR
The original author of this WWW server and its accompanying programs
is Sven Berkvens. I made all the programs, except the imagemapper,
which I took from the NCSA distribution, but I cleaned it up.
.LP
New features have been added by other people at Stack. If you have
problems with this version please contact the Stack maintainers
(xs-httpd@stack.nl) about it and don't bother Sven Berkvens.
