.Dd December 17, 2006
.Dt XSREDIR 5
.Os xs-httpd/3.5
.Sh NAME
.Nm \.redir
.Nd XS-httpd HTTP redirection file
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Pa .redir
and
.Pa *.redir
files tell the xs\-httpd webserver to redirect the client to
an alternative location when it attempts to retrieve a
certain resource.
.Ss Simple Redirect
A simple HTTP redirect message will be sent when the client
requests a resource for which a file with the *.redir or
*.Redir postfix exists.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Pa *.redir
If a (regular) file is requested and a file exists with the
same name but with
.Ql .redir
appended to it, the requested file will not be sent.
Instead, the server will send a redirection message to the
remote user client. The redirected location is retrieved
from the
.Pa *.redir
file. This file should contain (only) one absolute URL. It
does not matter if the file that was requested by the client
actually exists or not.
.It Pa *.Redir
The same as
.Pa *.redir ,
however instead of a temporary redirection (302) a permanent
redirection (301) will be sent. Users probably won't notice
any difference, but it should keep robots from keep on using
the old address.
.El
.Ss Directory Redirect
If a file named
.Pa .redir
is present in a certain directory, and any file is requested
from that directory, then a redirection message will be sent
to the remote user's browser. It works simply by
substituting the server name and the directory that the
remote user to get to this file by the contents of the file.
This way, an entire directory can be automatically be
redirected.
.Ss Regular Expression Matching
If
.Sy PCRE
(perl-compatible regular expression) support is compiled in,
then more flexible redirection rules can be written. The
.Pa .redir
file may contain multiple redirection commands. These
commands may use several types: pass, passexist, redir, Redir,
rewrite or forward.
.Pp
The expression that must be matched by the given PCRE is the
full local request path (basically the URL without hostname,
for example
.Pa /~username/foo/bar.html ) .
This expression is the same regardless of the location of the
redir file (either in the user's webroot or the
.Pa foo
subdirectory).
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Sy pass Ar oldurl
If the requested URL matches the
.Ar oldurl
regular expression then no redirection action will be taken.
The file will be retrieved as normal and if the
corresponding file does not exist, this may even lead to a
404 Not Found error. This command may be useful since
.Pa .redir
files are parsed line by line and the first matching
directive will be executed. If the
.Sy pass
command matches, the rest of the redir file will be ignored.
.It Sy passexist
This expression will match if the requested URL matches a file
that exists on disk. In this case no further rules will be
processed and the file will be retrieved as normal.
This is a shortcut notation to making a
.Sy pass
rule for every existing file in the directory.
.It Sy redir Ar oldurl Ar newurl
The requested URL is matched against the
.Ar oldurl
expression. If this matches, the client will be redirected
to the
.Ar newurl
location. This location may contain string substitutions. If
the .redir file contains multiple matching URLs, the first
match will be used for redirection. The resulting URL should
be an absolute URL including protocol, hostname and path.
.It Sy Redir Ar oldurl Ar newurl
This directive is similar to the
.Sy redir
command. But rather than a temporary redirect, a permanent
redirect (301) will be generated.
.It Sy rewrite Ar oldurl Ar newurl
In this case the same matching sceme as for redirects will
be used, but rather than generating a redirect, the
webserver will try to resolve the filename itself and dispay
the resolved file directly.
Note that unlike the
.Sy redir
commands, it is not allowed to generate full URL's in this
case: only local URL's are permitted (omitting the protocol
and hostname).
.It Sy forward Ar oldurl Ar newurl
If the webserver has been compiled with forwarding support (curl),
then one can also use
.Sy forward
directives. Forwarding behaves transparently (like rewrite),
but in this case the webserver will retrieve the resulting
file from a remote webserver.
.Pp
URL matching and rewriting works the same as for the
.Sy redir
command.
The resulting URL must be an absolute URL including protocol,
hostname and path.
.Pp
Note that forwarding unencrypted requests to a https location or
encrypted requests to a plain-text http location may lead to a false
sense of security. Use forwards with care.
.It Sy ifenv Ar envvar Ar value
The
.Sy ifenv
directive can be used to write conditional redirects. In this expression
.Ar envvar
should be the name of a CGI environment variable (e.g.
.Ev REMOTE_HOST )
and
.Ar value
is a regular expression to be matched.
If the environment variable is set and actually matches the given value,
then the following block of redirect statements will be executed.
If there is no match, then everything up to the next empty line
(or end of file) will be ignored.
.Pp
Refer to
.Xr httpd_cgi 7
for a list of all environment variables that may be checked in this way.
Note that if a block contains multiple
.Sy ifenv
statements, then the following redirect rules will only be executed if
all variables match their respective values.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
A common way to show information from a database is to have a single
CGI handle all requests while pretending every page has its own html
file:
.Bd -literal
rewrite	/~user/wiki/(.*)\\.html$	/~user/cgi-bin/wiki.cgi?page=\\1
.Ed
.Pp
To have all pages (except CGI binaries) temporarily served from
another machine, use something like:
.Bd -literal
pass	cgi-bin
redir	^/~user/(.*)$	http://www.example.org:8080/~user/\\1
.Ed
.Pp
Instead of
.Sy redir ,
one might use
.Sy forward
here instead.
In that case the end-user will not be aware that information is
retrieved from another webserver. This is useful if the other server
is only accessible from the internal network
(e.g. a local Tomcat server).
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr httpd 1 ,
.Xr pcrepattern 3 ,
.Xr xsconf 5
.Pp
The project homepage:
.Pa http://www.stack.nl/xs\-httpd/
