.Dd June 12, 2002
.Dt XSSCRIPTS 5
.Os xs-httpd/3.5
.Sh NAME
.Nm \.xsscripts
.Nd XS-httpd file interpreter settings
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Traditionally all files in a user's
.Pa .html
directory contain static data. Mostly HTML markup data, but
also images and archives. However most people desire more
than only static HTML.
.Pp
So webservers offer Server-Side Includes, to allow
conditional blocks, page counters and even output from
external programs in HTML text (see
.Xr httpd 1
for a full overview). But even SSI's may not offer all the
flexibility that people look for, so it is possible to
include your own programs (be it shell scripts, compiled C
progs, PHP or anything else you can start from Unix prompt)
by placing them in the
.Pa /cgi-bin
subdirectory.
.Pp
Rather than being confined to a single directory, xs\-httpd
also offers a flexible mechanism to let the users specify
which files should be executed and which should be offered
with full source to the website visitor. This allows you a
per-file configuration so that you can have any file
interpreted as a program, rather than being confined to the
/cgi-bin directory, which is more typing and a also clear
indication to any visitor that it is a program.
.Pp
Users can include the interpretion settings through a
.Pa .xsscripts
file which may be placed in any html directory. The settings
apply recursively to all subdirectories. The system
administration may also include global settings through the
.Pa script.methods
file in the main xs\-httpd configuration directory. This may
be convenient if you want, for instance, all *.php files to
be parsed by a PHP interpreter.
.Pp
Additional command line options may not be specified in the
configuration file. In order to supply extra parameters to
the interpreter, one must write a wapper script that handles
these options. The interpreter will be executed from the
directory containing the requested file; with the
appropriate filename as the single argument.
.Ss File Layout
Every line contains the name of the interpreter that should be run, and a
suffix of the filenames from the html directory that are to be handled by
this interpreter. To have all files with the extension .pl interpreted
by Perl, add the following line:
.Bd -literal -offset indent -compact
	/usr/local/bin/perl		.pl
.Ed
.Pp
Lines starting with
.Ql #
will be ignored as comments.
.Pp
The special extension
.Ql *
is supported to indicate a default interpreter program that
should handle all files for which no other interpreters are
specified. Note that the directive
.Bd -literal -offset indent -compact
	internal:exec			*
.Ed
practically turns a normal directory into a cgi-binary
directory.
.Ss Built-in Interpreters
Apart from external programs, several built-in directives
can be specified as well, to handle files with a certain
extension in a special way. The directives that can be used
are:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Sy internal:404
To generate a
.Ql 404 Not Found
error whenever a matching file is requested. This can for
instance be used for files that are only included in other
HTML files (standard header or footer) and never requested
directly. Give these a special extension like
.Pa .htmli
.It Sy internal:text
Treat as a normal document rather than an executable CGI.
This allows you to present HTML documents in a cgi-bin
directory. The directive can also be used to overrided
global settings or more general matching rules.
.It Sy internal:exec
Directly execute the program, without an interpreter. The
files with a matching extension should have the execute bit
set with
.Xr chmod 1 .
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Pa script.methods
Global configation file with interpreter directives,
located in
.Sy SystemRoot Ns Pa /conf/ .
.It Pa .xsscripts
Local configation file with interpreter directives,
located in any html data directory.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr httpd 1 ,
.Xr xsconf 5 ,
.Xr mime.types 5 ,
.Xr httpd_cgi 7
.Pp
The project homepage:
.Pa http://www.stack.nl/xs\-httpd/
